good afternoon make sure in the right
room this is the Amazon redshift deep
dive my name is Eric Ferreira I'm a
database engineer with the Redshift
development team and sharing the stage
with me I have Ari Miller one of our
customers we're going to talk about
specifically today tuning and best
practices for performance on redshift
used some of the topics we're going to
talk about today ingestion some recent
features we added for you some migration
tips workload tuning and then I'll have the
privilege to have Ari from tripadvisor
talk to you about how they implement
their redshift environment for
performance and i highly recommend you
stay to the end at the beginning I took
a picture I will know who left or who
didn't okay so do you hear so this is an
advanced said sesh I'm not going to go
to the details redshift but it's always
good to remember redshift is our fast
simple petabyte scale data warehouse for
less than a thousand dollars per
terabyte per year and today I want to
focus on the fast part and there are
many customers that are really happy
about the performance they get with
redshift and the idea of this session is
to make sure you also that a using
redshift can achieve the same
performance as those customers are
enjoying here's a review of the
architecture of redshift we are a
columnar multi-node share-nothing
cluster database service and you have a
leader node where you connect for a
SQL and then the compute nodes where
the data resides and they all the work
happens and a lot of the operations
happens in parallel directly through the
compute nodes and that some of the
things we're going to talk about today
if you focus on the compute nodes
details you're going to see that the
node has different slices and the unit
of work on redshift is actually the
slice and so it cares more about how
many slices total we have in your
cluster than the number of nodes you
have in your cluster we have two
platforms one with SSDs
that has different types that have
the large and 8xlarge and normally we
have ratio one-to-one slices per CPU and
we have our dance storage nodes which we
have hard drives and on this particular
platform we have two CPUs per slice and
by the way these RDS choose if you're
still using a just once or D s ones i
highly recommend you move because it's
double the cpu double the memory same
price no-brainer so focus on how the
redshift does the work on each slice
we're going to talk about a different
things to achieve the parallelism the
performance you need for your workload
so first let's talk about ingestion if
you copy a single file into redshift
only one slice is doing work because
they slice is the one that cop is a
different file each slice copy a
different file so instead of getting a
hundred megabytes per second you're
going to get 6 megabytes per second and
that's not fun if you have enough files
then on the phase one of your copy
command you're going to have every slice
doing work and then you can achieve the
100 megabytes per second per node and
expect to scale near linearly as you add
more nodes assume you have enough files
to feed those slices right you want
those files to be similar size amongst
each other of course and just one extra
tip files between one megabyte and one
gigabyte gzipped works best in terms of
performance another thing related to
ingestion is the primary Keys redshift
allows you to add primary key to the
table and to define them and it's good
documentation for you and the optimizer
can use that information to make
optimizations during the query however
if you try to load the same data twice
Red chief is not going to complain we
don't force primary keys but we still
recommend you to use them so make sure
if you declare a column as primary key
you maintain that unique otherwise you
might get wrong
results when the optimizer assumes the
data is unique and it's not also when
you load in data into redshift you might
create a number of files on s3 and
immediately try to copy with the prefix
giving the eventual consistency on s3
you may not see all the files
immediately on the other copy command so
you might leave some files behind and of
course you can go on stl load commits
and see which files you actually load it
and make sure you got all the files you
wanted but if you use a manifest file
then you declare what exact files you
want to load and what you do with the
file is not there error out or ignore
and at the end you guarantee you load
exactly the files you want to load the
beauty of the manifest file is that if I
five supposed to be there and it's not
it retries a few times so if I might
show up and if it doesn't show up after
a few tries that is when it errors out
let's talk about data hygiene lots of
customers create their cluster start
loading your data are amazed by the
performance and month down the road they
say oh my god my performance tanked
something is wrong and they're not doing
data hygiene so gathering stats on table
is very important for the optimizer to
know which day was bigger which table is
going to turn more roles so you can do
the joint on the right order so every
time you add rows to a table you should
analyze at least the sort key column
it's very fast because you do on a
single column and isn't enough for the
optimizer to know the size of the table
weekly you should do a full analyze of
all the columns so the optimizer has
better statistics about all the data in
your table there is a view we added
recently that's called svv table info
and the column called stats off can tell
you how much percent of the table has
stay 0 stats and then you know when
together steps also you can look on the
stl alert event log for tables that are
nice nice tats all together if you never
get our stats on a table which is
possible and can cause you a lot of
problems vacuum vacuum I don't want you
to run with every load not part of it
etl vacuum is a very expensive process
you want to run kind of once a week is a
good start and see how that works for
you use for your environment the number
of unsorted box as a trigger to know
when to run vac you on your table again
if you look on svv table info on the
column unsorted or empty you know when
it's time to run vacuum because you
deleted too many rows or because we have
too many unsorted rose be aware however
that if you have too many on started
blocks or too many deleted rose it might
be faster to do a DP copy on your table
create a brand new table just copy the
data over then run vacuum usually that
thresholds about twenty percent but your
mileage will vary automatic compression
it's a great thing because automatically
compress the data for you you get better
performance on your scans and lower
costs on your storage because you can
fit more dating glass space and what it
does is actually samples the data about
a hundred thousand million rows worth of
data it tries to compress every possible
way figure is out which one is going to
be smaller drops the table creates the
table again and starts loading all over
again that's great to do once not every
time you load the same type of data so
if you load using copy command into up
empty table like a staging table or a
temporary table load the data analyze
compression define what's the best
compression for that column for each
column on that table and then you bake
those on the create table then you don't
do out to compression every single load
its victim cost you a lot of time
loading if you try to figure out the
compression of every single time okay
talking about compression be careful
when you compress your sort keys
on red shift we use zone maps to figure
out which blocks we're going to actually
scan now we start on the sort key
because your workload likely to be on
the sort key and if for example you have
a column one there to be your sort key
it's highly compressed I have a hundred
thousand rows on a single block when I
find the one roll I'm looking for it
marked that block okay I need to scan
the roll-up set of this blog so I'm
going to scan between rows 10 and 100
thousand when I go to the other columns
like in our example column number two
which is five times bigger I going to
scan five blocks for each one block of
the start key I need to scan and that
can be wasteful if my date is only one
block of every single column the goal is
to have all columns similar size between
the Sarge key and the non search key
column so I can most efficient map row
offsets from one column to the next a
good rule of thumb is don't compress the
circus compress everything else don't
compare the start keys because usually
the start key will be a date or an
integer or something like that and you
compress really well because of you
ordering by that so be careful rule of
thumb don't compress sort keys now if
you want to check your data for possible
problems again svv table info there's a
column called excuse Alt key one with
the ratio between the largest column
after compression and the first column
the sort key that number is too big you
might have this problem and if you have
this problem even having the proper
search key and even having the queries
using the sort key you're going to show
the alert that says very selective
filter meaning it scans too many rows or
too many blocks in our case to return to
few rows and that's their sign that
either a search key is wrong or you
would need to uncompress your sort keys
as you create your design your tables
you want to keep your tables as narrow
as for
to go in terms of the size of your VAR
charts we only store the amount of data
that the VAR char has however as we pull
the data back we create a buffer off the
declared size because we don't know how
much the size of the date we're going to
get back and why they're means less rose
in the same memory means spilling more
to this and low and poor performance on
queries so make sure you don't have a
VAR char 2004 our state column of two
okay I've seen that trust me is no I'm
not kidding look at your tables on svv
table info for the max VAR char and that
might give a hint that you have a very
64,000 that maybe should you need to
exist if you have the data that feels a
large VAR chart that's fine right but if
you don't don't create a bunch of our
char 1000 varsh are 256 when you need to
10 12 right be careful about how you
sighs your table now I want to talk to
you about some recent features we
launched and some some people I have a
customer talking today where he said you
know I got surprised you guys launch
such and such feature I'm going to talk
about here and we didn't know for a
month so there are lists on the AWS blog
that you can see what's new and getting
information but who has time to be
looking for what's going on all the time
so I want to catch you up on the new
features that can help with performance
as well on redshift we added a number of
new SQL functions my favorite to least
egg and there's two version of it
there's the wyndham function version and
the regular aggregate function version
we add an approximate count drop if he
exists in a number of others and we keep
interacting and we're going to keep
adding more functions for your workload
but we also want to allow you to create
your own functions and we launched
user-defined functions you can write
your code in Python 2.7 and and use
whatever you want in terms of how you're
going to use your functions which you
want to hear about specific functions
you use a lot they might be useful for
other customers we might bake that into
the system directly so don't stop
talking to us about what features and
ought what functions you want editor
redshift we still wanna listen because
we might add them for you the library
added for Python already comes with
bundles nope I on syfy and you can
create and install your own libraries
and it's a great great use case for for
example you create outside the database
a huge scoring model very complicated
save on a small little python library
load the library and redshift and use to
score very fast your data so there's
limitless applications and we love to
hear what you're going to do with you DX
a couple of examples is could be like if
you have a hostname to extract from a
URL you could use our reg ex but it's
kind of complex you might miss the coma
here and get something wrong or it can
create a UDF that make it simple for
anybody to pull a hostname out of URL
that's a scene for example that's how
kind of child's play we had partners
that as soon as we announced the feature
they created a list of examples of UDF
that are quite useful both lucre and
periscope created a very good set of
functions some related to date
manipulation JSON manipulation I highly
recommend you take a look go they have
tons of them and we love because it's
immediately can be used for to you on
your application talking about partners
don't forget there there's a number of
partners that have their services run
directly on top of redshift that you can
deploy in come together when a single
click things like attunity or
MicroStrategy or looker so make sure you
don't forget that the mark marketplace
can have things for you now I want to
talk to you about interleaved sort keys
we added some time ago and we making it
better as as we process and get more
feedback from customers and we want to
make sure that you understand what it
does and how can help you with your
queries so before I go there
let me explain how compound start keys
work when I have a tape with a compound
search key I sort everything for the
first column in our example here
customer ID and then for the same value
of customer ID I start everything by
product ID the table is physically
ordered by that every column even though
it's a separate file it's ordered by the
same order sorting by customer ID in
product ID so my first seeker you see
there when I do a query and let's say
customer ID equals 1 for example i will
hit only one block because of zone maps
a min max values i know i don't have to
scan all the blocks beautiful i get the
sum I only open that that fire that has
the amount and Macri is really really
fast when I do I want a some by-product
now i'm using the second column of the
start key and doesn't help me i have to
scan the whole table and because of
parallelism and brute force share
nothing class it's not that slow but i
have to scan the whole tape is linear
cost i have to scan the whole table the
interleaved start key instead of
starting by one column then by another
than by another what we do is we get all
the columns you declare on your sort key
and we get beats information from all of
them in a complex math equation and we
ordered a table by that result of that
math equation in our example now my
customer ID is spread across two blocks
and my product ID is a scary about two
blocks have a like a two dimension way
of entry on the table so I mixed up
proud of that information and customize
the information on a new value looking
at my distribution of data to find the
best mathematical function that we
represent the new number in order by
that when I query by product IG I hit
two blocks not for when a query by
customer ID I hit two blocks not one
anymore however if I hit by customer ID
and product ID I go straight to a single
block so it's a great feature if you
have tables where sometimes you created
by
sometimes you create by customers
sometimes you query by region and so
forth it can be very helpful many other
database what they do is makes you
create another index or a projection or
a joint index however they call it but
it's redundant data on this case there's
no redundant data the data is ordered in
a different way and mathematics makes us
the scan analog in fashion instead of
linear on the table the way to use the
feature you just add the interleaved key
word on when you create the table you
can have up to eight columns on the
interleaved start key and of course the
more columns you add the less each one
gets relevance on the on the on the
scheme of things and the data as you
first copy into the table we analyze the
data to create that special function
over time if the distribution of your
customer ID is in product is changed too
much you get skew on the function and we
have a way to monitor that so if you
look on the SVD interleaved columns view
on the interleaved skill when that
number grows like above five it's time
to run a command called vacuum reindex
which is going to happen is we're going
to reread all the data reanalyze the
distributions you get the best
mathematical function and then restart
the table by that particular value and
then you get performance back again very
useful feature we are we are getting
started with the feature make it better
make it more useful making faster to do
different things there is a load penalty
because there's some mathematical
calculations that need to happen but
it's i highly recommend you try to see
not normally this feature is not very
conducive for range scans for date so if
your main filter is like a date range
that might not be for you but you should
try just to make sure that all your
generic crees work better or worse with
that feature now let's talk about
migrating your existing workloads if you
don't get anything else out of here
don't four clique your system because
they're going to be fast to get create
new tables and right
she's loaded data point your system to
read chieftain ok I'm done right you're
going to spend a lot of time tuning and
troubleshooting when things go wrong
don't do that the problem is a lot of
legacy data warehouse have some patterns
of usage that people have used for tens
tens of years and they are actually
anti-patterns for red shift for example
I've used to load large day with a
single file extract a single file and
load to the final system and we already
talked about single file not good for
load or I run many updates on my data I
load my date and then a massage massage
massage and then ok now it's good
instead of doing a one-step processing
that's more complex hard to write but
you do a single step you massage the
date and that's in Japan and for my
chief because updates we're going to
talk about that or every job clears all
the data for the day before loading I'm
not sure if I loaded yet or not so I'm
just going to clear the data you should
know if you load your date or not you
should not just clear it's like I'm not
sure if I have breakfast or not so I'm
just going to anyway you get it here or
you count on primary keys to avoid you
from duplicating your data again right
chief does not enforce primary keys yet
and you should make sure you know what
you load in your data the other thing
it's a normal pattern on other legacy
data warehouse is that you have a high
concurrency of load jobs and the reason
is a single job on a regular legacy
theater house cannot use all your
hardware so if you load one table at a
time you're never going to be done so
you have to load 1020 202,000 tables at
a time because then you the different
jobs are kind of using more than harder
that's the way for you to utilize the
hardware bought and you're paying for on
Red chief is not quite that Andrea chief
a single job can use the whole cluster
Ohio all cpu all memory and it might be
better to let happen this way we're
going to talk a little bit about that in
a few seconds and the other thing which
is a pet peeve of mine is you create a
small control table to control your load
process inside the target data house
database where you do a single row
insert a single row update and then a
single rupee date again and
another single update and then insert
and then another delete and over time
those transactions are expensive in red
shift and you get in a way of actually
loading your data we're going to talk a
little bit about that as well when you
start your process of migrating to
redshift I want you to ask two questions
first why you do what you do people may
not know or it might be a limitation
that doesn't exist anymore or maybe a
limitation that you know the new system
does not have right you should know why
you do what you do we've always done
this way why I don't know you have to
know the other thing what your customer
needs the system day was developed 10
years ago may not meet their
requirements anymore since you're going
to get a new system why not get the
fresh requirements understand what they
need now so it implemented and on the
process we might even benefit from using
other AWS services that can make the
whole package much more attractive for
your customer so on redshift why those
things or ant patterns an update on
redshift is a delete and insert there's
no rear updates blocks are immutable and
of course the deletes themselves are not
real deletes we mark the row for
deletion and later on vacuum we clear
the data so it can be expensive to
update over and over again many rows a
single column of a table the blocks are
immutable the minimum space used by a
table is one block per slice per column
blocks are one megabyte you do the math
so you want to load thousands of rows at
a time not single row operation because
then you add a block every time first
slice for column and it becomes
expensive over at the end because your
table grows a lot and there's not a lot
of data there commits on Red chief are
expensive because they are designed for
batch processing every commit is about
four gigabytes right on each node on a
8xl knowed it Nevers the whole
dictionary from the leader know to the
compute nodes for recovery just in case
you break right after the commit and it
cluster wide sterilized so there's no
suggesting
small comets on redshift you want to
make the most of it bat your work and do
many steps and then a single commit on
red chief aggregates can be really
really really fast especially if the
first column of the group by matches the
distribution key because then we can do
a single step aggregation all the data
is already on the same node if you're
that does not true you might want to do
a pre aggregation to reduce the amount
of data that goes cross notes or the
order if you're going to buy can't
change your performance because if the
first call on the group ABBA is not the
distribution key but the second is you
just flip them in again see the
difference try me on that concrete genre
achieved should be low especially for
loaded jobs because every job will have
the opportunity to use the whole cluster
use the whole harder if 844 reads then
you have heavy reads and small reads and
then small reads can play together well
with other reads way at the same time
but very heavy reads the less
concurrence you do the faster the whole
thing runs so instead of thinking about
how long it takes to run one job or
thinking about how long it takes how
many jobs that can submit at the same
time think about how long it takes to
run the 2,000 jobs I have to run today
and you can tune it up the concurrency
one or time two at a time until you find
the ideal usually the rights would be
good at local currency and small reads
can be good at high concurrency and
large crees is somewhere in between you
can test this if you have a dashboard
that you want to connect against
redshift make sure you have a caching
layer in between to protect the cluster
from repeated queries of the exact same
data that will take a long way and you
may not you can save money by having
smaller cluster with the cash on top
they have to have a huge cluster so you
can get the performance and of course
think about that board they think of a
quick site who is looking a quick side
already it's a great tool and the spicy
tea in the middle can be a great thing
to put on frontal red shift i rightly
recommend you look into that it was made
for red shift now workload management on
chief we call wlm it parses only Ram two
different queries so you should
configure different queues for different
usages and there's a new feature then
it's in right now then I'm going to talk
to you about when you create data from
redshift sometimes you need to get not
only the data but the metadata about the
date what the name of the columns so you
run select or Java you can get that
easily from a query no problem on red
shift when you load extract a lot of
data out we recommend using unload which
in parallel write files directly from
the compute nodes into s3 however we
don't give column names on the files yet
and that's as far as I'm going to go on
that but what people do is they run the
unload and then they run the same query
again with 1 equals 0 at the end so he
can people can get the metadata of the
of the column the names of the calls and
things the problem is very complex
queries by the time the optimizer gas to
that equals 1 equals 0 it already create
empire tables already loaded a lunch of
data and it kind of takes it at the same
time as the original query talk instead
until we fix this you can do a select
top 0 because the optimizer we know
right off the bat is a fake select and
it runs much faster we made available
recently a number of open source tools
for you to manage your database i'm at
25-year DBA and i'd like to have my
scripts to do things on the database and
i got those scripts along with other
people that helped a lot and put this
together and made them available to
everybody so we have multiple sections
that are highly recommend you keep your
eyes on this it keeps growing keeps
adding new things and make them better
we have adam in script with a bunch of
tuning and monitoring for the database
views to get DD else out of table
permissions things like that column
encodings to for analyzing vacuum a two
for unloading copy move data from one
color to another cluster i highly
recommend you take a look on that the
bottom three are python written tools
you can get the source code change make
it yours make it
better give us suggestions give us a
this is broken we're going to fix it
make contributions we love to have your
code being there too now for this means
scrapes I'm going to show you a few of
them so you can have an idea of how they
work so imagine you want to tune your
workload plus is not quite running as
fast as you want so the first thing I
look top queries what are the queries
that are using most of my time on my
cluster either because a single query
like the first one takes a long time or
the second one there where it rains too
many times it's fast on itself but runs
too many times and then you can go and
see how can i fix those queries of
course on the right inside on the event
column there on the right you see there
is some of them that shares future or
stats those are performance alerts where
the system is telling you what is wrong
with the query it missing stats or the
future is not appropriate for the sort
key of the table another way of doing
look at your performance is looking at
the summary of your alerts related to a
particular table so you summarize all
your alerts for a table and also add the
number of minutes you spend scanning
that table so you have a prioritized
order which table you can fix and if you
fix them everybody that use the table
benefits from the performance
improvement for example this particular
flights table needs a new sort key or
maybe need to uncompress the sort key i
don't know we have to look specific
there but then gets a point where to
start your work another way of
performance tuning is to making sure
that not my careers are running fast but
actually I'm not waiting queue if I'm
submitting more queries that can run at
the same time if you look on the WLM
apex orally it's going to give you / q
and for our what's the pressure on the
queue my queue is 5 I have 10 people
waiting line maybe the queue needs to be
adjusted right and now that we allow you
to change the memory and the concurrency
of the workload management on the fly
without bouncing the cluster you can
change those parameters throughout the
day for example you're going to start
your load process you give more memory
to the queue number one there and then
when your ETL ends you
back to 5050 for example it so it's an
example right now this is all to point
you to a particular location and where
to look now you're going to ask me how
do I tune a specific query how do I know
explain plane is kind of fuzzy I kind of
know how to read the explain plan but
those queers are big right how do I know
exactly what's going on so I'm going to
show you something we launched some time
ago that I know many of you haven't used
yet it's the console and query detail
for the console so imagine you have a
query that runs on the console that has
the query and they explain play on the
bottom but you don't know each of the
steps really took longer but then you
click on the actual tab and voila you
have a list of all the explain plan
steps and how long each one took if they
are unbalanced or not balance is skewed
and you can't even get details about
your step like how many megabytes o 29
gigabytes of data transmitted that's why
that step was slow and you can figure
out what's going on it's a very good
tool when you've narrowed down to one
query what's wrong with that query and
then you can go and fix it and
understand exactly where who is
contributing where you need to fix
sometimes multiple steps look bad Oh
distribute data across the network that
must be bad well if it's 10 bytes is ok
if it's 10 megabytes I'm ok 10 gigabytes
that is really bad so this can tell you
exactly what's going on which step of
the crew took longest and help you
figure out and even see there's alerts
they're going to show here a these
tables missing stats that's what's your
problem right so I highly recommend you
take a look on this and I hope you can
you can enjoy tuning on red shift all
the performs those customers show in the
beginning now it's my pleasure to bring
re miller from tripadvisor you're going
to tell you how they created their
environment to get the performance they
needed from redshift
so I'm going to talk for about 15
minutes and then we'll have 10 minutes
at the end for questions because I know
how have some follow-up questions so
we're this presentation is about sharing
Amazon redshift so it's how do you
maximize your particular cluster
especially with a whole bunch of
different users using it it's a variety
of patterns we're using some tools that
were in the process of open sourcing
hopefully you guys will recognize some
of these problems and be able to benefit
from some of the patterns that we're
using or some of the tools we've built
so a brief introduction tripAdvisor's
375 million unique monthly visitors
we're using a fairly small cluster it's
an eight note D s 28 x-large our largest
table is 12 terabytes it's got about a
month of data and everything for us is
time series so we're really not about
real-time analytics most of our use of
redshift is about understanding user
behavior what people are looking for and
how we can better serve them we have a
big shared resource problem which is we
have about 460 engineers data scientists
analysts and product managers all of
whom have personal logins to redshift
they've created more than 2,500 tables
and our experience has been that if you
don't build it be it infrastructure or
whatever they're still going to come the
company motto is speed wins there's no
tolerance for delayed analysis if we
don't make the correct path the easiest
path they're still going to find a way
to accomplish it it will just be
accomplished in a way that interferes
with the other 459 users my favorite
recent example was one of our data
scientists needed to bring over a 293
million row table and we hadn't
communicated as well as we should have
how you would do that and so they
noticed that you could just use JDBC and
do a bunch of insert statements and it
worked but it kind of crippled some of
the underlying redshift used for query
monitoring because you now have 293
million rows and those underlying tables
for each individual insert so those are
the kind of things that happen unless
you establish the patterns and the tools
that users need they will find a way to
do it anyway so our solution
break down into four points reduce
contention so where you're doing
something expensive that you control
find a way to do it on a custom cluster
that's really effective for what you're
trying to accomplish and I'll talk
specifically about the types of custom
clusters we use for different types of
tasks ad infrastructure and automation
add a lot of monitoring tables
performance and usage and where you can
if you know everyone's trying to
accomplish some similar goals do as much
of that as you can yourself so that they
can then benefit in just query instead
of doing the ETL you know and how five
people doing the same et al so for
custom computation clusters your goal
there is to stay out of the way and our
favorite type of custom computation
cluster from a performance and cost
perspective so what we call a mighty
mouse cluster and that's a specialized
ephemeral cluster the Mighty Mouse one
in particular is 32 DC one large nodes
so that's great bang for the buck in
terms of a lot of computation cases it's
eight dollars an hour for the whole
cluster for all 32 nodes for a four-hour
job on d1 asses you could end up doing
it in 40 minutes on a mighty mouse
cluster so you can get some real
performance wins the d2s for us we've
seen fifty to two hundred percent
performance improvements compared to the
D ones that's Eric's advice to if you're
still on the D ones get off so much
smaller wins versus the d2's but if you
look at performance / cost you can still
see 3x better performance / costs for a
lot of use cases compared to sort of the
bigger nodes so we had seven of these 32
node clusters running last week doing
some custom computation and we ended up
saving it's about three times cheaper
than it would have been how we done the
same computation on the d2s some of the
winds you're getting or you can
customize a configuration of these
ephemeral clusters so as Eric was saying
redshift is really good at parallelizing
and operating a single query at a time
in spreading the workload over nodes so
a lot of times run with two slots only
to maximize the amount of memory
available to each query and that's been
very effective on us you're just relying
on the underlying technology to parallel
eyes across the nodes you do have to be
careful right if you're making any
mistakes
your query that are causing nodes to
need to talk to one another more than
they have to that blows up when you're
dealing with 32 nodes at a time so you
have to experiment make sure you're
doing things in an optimized way but it
actually is kind of a good way canary in
a coalmine style to really know that
you're not doing something effective
with a query because while you might get
away with it with eight nodes if there's
you know bad distribution keys or too
much node communication it really blows
up once you start talking about thirty
two nodes at a time the primary
limitation we found with these custom
computation clusters is the size of the
copy so with 32 of these nodes you have
five terabytes of storage but if you're
trying to bring in for us anything more
than 300 gigabytes compressed you end up
in the process of bringing it in using
all the available space on the cluster
and you're quite your load will fail so
that's it's not a an awful limitation
but you got to keep that in mind like
just because you have five terabytes
usable on a cluster like this doesn't
mean you can bring in five terabytes of
data compressed all at once the
additional pieces of infrastructure and
as I said one of the process of open
sourcing some of these if you're going
to use custom computation clusters you
don't want to rebuild your cluster every
time you want tools that let you say
okay I need this schema from my main
cluster on this ephemeral cluster so we
have some of those tools sync redshift
objects is basically a way to bring over
entire schemas to an ephemeral cluster
from your main cluster we have specific
unload and copy for transferring the
data back and forth but it sounds like
some of the tools that Eric's already
open source might be more effective than
that one key thing to keep in mind is
use a manifest file wherever possible
with analytics it's much better to fail
than it is to lie and a really easy way
to lie is to get into trouble with
eventual consistency in the standard
region and only be you know only have
some of your files that got unloaded
available at the time you do the copy so
I heavily recommend whenever you're
doing it unload or ever whenever you're
doing a copy you take advantage of the
manifest file option don't find out
later that you've come to the wrong
business decision because you only had
you know eighty percent of your data at
the time you copied back in the next bit
is infrastructure in automation in
the easiest path there is to start with
your engineers so what can you add that
lets engineers take advantage of things
you've built for yourself already and
one of the things that we are using is
something that LinkedIn open source
called Azkaban and that's a batch
workflow and UI and scheduler and it's
really very easy for people to adopt
it's nice you can basically divide your
logic for bringing data over or runnin
sequel into a series of jobs and it'll
create visual dependencies for you you
can parameterize running your jobs you
can parallelize running them you can
visually see when things are happening
it gives you a list of how long things
takes you get a whole bunch of things
baked in and it's a very easy adoption
for engineers so these jobs get run and
Azkaban is calling the data transfer
infrastructure that we've already built
so that's been very effective for us in
terms of skaz a scheduler and
understanding dependencies and making
sure things happen in the right order
and to Eric's point we actually have a
normal postgres admin database that's
tracking what rant what runs when we're
not trying to have a small control table
that we're doing lots of individual
rights to in sort of a transactional way
that's living on redshift so that's
another pattern that you might want to
make sure to copy once you've handled
the engineer problem and you've given
them a pathway for writing custom flows
and we're at about 70 individual flows
at different engineering teams have
created at this point with their own
independent schedules you want to go for
solutions for your data your data
analysts your data scientists give them
a way to have a point-and-click UI for
scheduling so custom UI for
non-engineers something that allows you
to import from file or hive and as I
said we're in the process of trying to
open source these solutions what we do
in these cases is we ought to analyze
the source data either from file or high
if we suggest a table ddl sort
distribution and compression and we can
schedule automated imports and automated
runs of particular sequel we it was
probably a mistake to have automatically
suggested compression we probably would
have been better off bringing in a
subset of the data and relying on reg
to suggest the compression or just not
trying for that at all and relying on
automated redshift it depends whether as
Eric said if you're doing something over
and over again you're better off
eventually coming up with the
compression through and analyze if
you're just doing a one-off much better
off just not to specify compression and
let redshift do it the next thing we
added was monitoring and the key thing
to keep in mind here is you've got
compatibility with postgres so you can
throw up simple monitoring that's
emailing alerts out with a simple query
statement and then emailing the results
of that query which is what we're doing
at the bottom so we have long run
inquiry alerts every account that gets
created is mapped to an email address so
we know who to tell if a car has gone
off the rails are these different users
we have daily and peak usage reports by
user and type of activity daily table
size space taken up I delete a rose by
table we tend to use deep copy instead
of vacuum because by the time we see
that a table is a problem we're well
over the twenty percent where you're
going to be feasible to vacuum and as I
said the initial monitoring cost for
this type of solution is can be really
really cheap all you have to do is write
a query like that p sequel quiet HTML
output you go from a file do an output
and then email it out to whoever needs
to be notified so it's just a very
simple way of setting up alerts seeing
if they have value we've actually found
a slightly better pattern is to insert
the results of the query into a date
partition table so you have a record of
what things were going on at what time
you can build dashboards on top of it
then you select and then you email so
slightly more complicated but it gives
you a historical record for things that
prove themselves out on the monitoring
side you can then do things like build
tableau dashboards on top of your
monitoring so this is you know different
sized is is for different users is how
much of the cluster resources of giving
users taking off so we can start knowing
who to communicate with if someone's
sort of overly aggressively using
different cluster resources the next
thing I wanted to talk about from an
engineering side is a shared development
cluster so you obviously don't want to
be doing most of your development on
your main clusters if you're
testing out we a good example for us we
had people testing out a new uses of the
list AG query and we found you can take
up ten percent of the usable space on a
fairly large cluster in about 30 minutes
if you use the list at query wrong so
you know you want as much of that to
happen not on your main cluster so we
found can be very effective as a shared
development cluster and we use something
we call Khaleesi syntax after the
engineer who invented it which is a very
simple way of marking up the schemas and
your query so what this lets you do is
if let's say given flow a given sort of
unit of work might operate on a
particular schema to say we're looking
at something like hotel bookings what
you do is you mark it up so everywhere
you reference that schema is noted like
this so it's completely legitimate
sequel can run as is but it's marked up
in a way that lets a tool do
substitutions so when people are
operating on that flow trying to
engineer it and make it better on the
shared development cluster you can
automatically create copies of the
schema that this runs against for their
own for their own personal users so if
both jeff bezos and werner vogels wants
to develop the short on the Sherpa flow
you basically can just have some tools
that go and create them their own
version of the schema and run against
that schema and use the same precursors
so rather than having the overhead of
spinning up an individual cluster per
user you can instead all operate on the
same shared development environment and
as I said we're working on open sourcing
this so it'll be sort of available if
you guys want to see exactly what we did
but feel free to reach out as well
there's a little bit of example code for
what we do to do that you can see it's
not particularly complicated we're
creating a schema we have a target
schema and then the schema for the
individual user we just go through the
tables we load the information and we
substitute basically for the schema so
that we can recreate the entire schema
and clone it over to another to another
schema that's personalized for the
developer to operate on the next trick I
wanted to talk about is view performance
this is actually less relevant because
of the recent improvements that they've
made a few performance but you can also
mark up views such that if the users
using your tools and you note that
they're using a subsection of
that only comes from one table as I said
we're using the time series pattern so
we tend to divide our tables up by
months so we can drop old months without
having to deal with vacuum costs and you
can find that pattern on the redshift
documentation so the syntax is
completely legitimate sequel against a
view you can have it auto complete if
you're developing your sequel and an IDE
but your underlying framework can
substitute in and run against an
individual table instead of using the
view to get performance optimizations
that way as I said a lot less relevant
now that the view performance is around
is good for Union all type views but it
used to be a very large wins to avoid
doing Union all running queries against
Union all views final thing I wanted to
talk about is queue management so the
idea there is keep it simple because the
memory is reserved though you no longer
need to keep it as simple because you
can now dynamically move queues around
without actually needing to reboot your
cluster so we have four cubes for
example mission-critical queries that
might run a while a queue 4shared
basically shared computation the DBA q a
quick Q which we use for tableau so if
you need to run quick queries to find
very quick answers or for tableau
dashboards where you need immediate
responses but don't use a lot of
computational resources and then a
default queue that everyone fell in we
have a default timeout so when some user
does a Cartesian product on a you know
12 billion row table you don't end up
bringing the whole cluster down for
three hours it's only sort of slow for
30 minutes since that's been pretty
helpful to have default timeouts on the
particular keys and then groups allow
you to dynamically switch queues for
particular users you can associate a
group with a queue and you can
dynamically move users from group to
group so for environments like tableau
where you can't set your query group you
can actually just have UI is that let a
tableau user move between groups
depending on whether it's loading a
large extract or just servicing the
needs of a dashboard so we found that to
be pretty effective where users can't
set their own query groups is a way to
dynamically adjust which ques users fall
in soon wrap up amazon redshift is
transformed analytics a tripadvisor we
get thousands of queries
hundreds of users and all unknot that
larger clusters you can really optimize
your use of a cluster if you really
spend the time to optimize it in these
ways we generally use tableau dashboards
built directly on Amazon redshift and it
allows for iterative real time
exploration which is hundreds of times
faster than poking around in hive or a
variety of other options and we have
openldap access for any employee we had
to do a little bit of custom work to
just sort of man automatically create
instead of manually create accounts but
I'm that the ldap abscess and ability to
plug into LDAP repositories is I think
coming at some point and we're going to
be open sourcing these solutions we're
currently targeting February of 2016 but
if there's anything you particularly
interested in early feel free to reach
out and contact me we're just trying to
sort of divorce some of our custom stuff
from some of the more generically usable
aspects of the tools we've built and
some of the patterns are usable now and
when we do open source it you'll be able
to find the link it HTTP engineering
tripadvisor com thank you very much
so another example of customer they
started with redshift and created their
own environment around it there is those
other sessions with other customers are
discussing their user redshift some of
them already happened and you can go on
the archives on the video or audio or
the share of the slides but the ones
that are still going to happen i highly
recommend you take a look and and see
what you can learn from redshift now I'm
going to take a few questions